docs: Guided exercise interactions via CLI (#945)
cosmos/sdk-tutorials: academy/4-my-own-chain/create-message.md

```

<ExpansionPanel title="The command prints a lot and prompts you for confirmation">

```
{"body":{"messages":[{"@type":"/alice.checkers.checkers.MsgCreateGame","creator":"cosmos1wh7scjfhgzeqxfxhqq6jh59sj2y8d7u97qu7qp","red":"cosmos1wh7scjfhgzeqxfxhqq6jh59sj2y8d7u97qu7qp","black":"cosmos199krg6nz4qgv53nvrx9gj7nrlg48clwurn82jy"}],"memo":"","timeout_height":"0","extension_options":[],"non_critical_extension_options":[]},"auth_info":{"signer_infos":[],"fee":{"amount":[],"gas_limit":"40412","payer":"","granter":""}},"signatures":[]}

confirm transaction before signing and broadcasting [y/N]: y
code: 0
codespace: ""
data: 0A0C0A0A43726561746547616D65
gas_used: "38891"
gas_wanted: "40412"
height: "3905"
info: ""
logs:
- events:
  - attributes:
    - key: action
      value: CreateGame
    type: message
  log: ""
  msg_index: 0
raw_log: '[{"events":[{"type":"message","attributes":[{"key":"action","value":"CreateGame"}]}]}]'
timestamp: ""
tx: null
txhash: 59BC309EF79C354DD46ECE8D882BE133699CC10B165FEFAFF6AF3717507EBB4F
```

</ExpansionPanel>

You can query your chain to check if the new game was saved to state:

<CodeGroup>

> <CodeGroupItem title="Show-next-game" active>

Author: ```suggestion
<CodeGroupItem title="Show next game" active>
```

```sh
$ checkersd query checkers show-next-game
```

Which returns:

```
NextGame:
  creator: ""
  idValue: "0"
```

</CodeGroupItem>

> <CodeGroupItem title="List-stored-game">

Author: ```suggestion
<CodeGroupItem title="List stored game">
```

       --dry-run                  ignore the --gas flag and perform a simulation of a transaction, but don\`t broadcast it
       --fees string              Fees to pay along with transaction; eg: 10uatom
       --from string              Name or address of private key with which to sign
       --gas string               gas limit to set per-transaction; set to "auto" to calculate sufficient gas automatically (default 200000)
...
```

You kept the two accounts that were created by Starport. Have `alice` start a game with `bob`. Instead of having to copy and paste the addresses each time you need them, you can store these as variables:

```sh
$ export alice=$(checkersd keys show alice -a)
$ export bob=$(checkersd keys show bob -a)
```

 How much gas is needed? You can get an estimate by dry running the transaction using the `--dry-run` flag:

```sh
$ checkersd tx checkers create-game $alice $bob --from $alice --dry-run
```

Which prints:

```
gas estimate: 40452
```

Hard to judge how much gas that really means. In any case, keep gas on `auto`:

```sh
$ checkersd tx checkers create-game $alice $bob --from $alice --gas auto
```

> <ExpansionPanel title="It prints a lot and prompts you for confirmation">

Reviewer: For clarity, I would recommend not using "It" but naming it explicitly.

> <ExpansionPanel title="It prints a lot and prompts you for confirmation">

Author: ```suggestion
<ExpansionPanel title="The command prints a lot and prompts you for confirmation">
```

```sh
$ checkersd tx checkers --help
...
Available Commands:
  create-game Broadcast message createGame
```

And also:

```sh
$ checkersd tx checkers create-game --help
...
Usage:
  checkersd tx checkers create-game [red] [black] [flags]

Flags:
   -a, --account-number uint      The account number of the signing account (offline mode only)
   -b, --broadcast-mode string    Transaction broadcasting mode (sync|async|block) (default "sync")
       --dry-run                  ignore the --gas flag and perform a simulation of a transaction, but don\`t broadcast it
       --fees string              Fees to pay along with transaction; eg: 10uatom
       --from string              Name or address of private key with which to sign
       --gas string               gas limit to set per-transaction; set to "auto" to calculate sufficient gas automatically (default 200000)
...
```

You kept the two accounts that were created by Starport. Have `alice` start a game with `bob`. Simplify your life and make them aliases:

```sh
$ export alice=cosmos1wh7scjfhgzeqxfxhqq6jh59sj2y8d7u97qu7qp
$ export bob=cosmos199krg6nz4qgv53nvrx9gj7nrlg48clwurn82jy
```

>  How much gas is needed? Estimate that with:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 How much gas is needed? You can get an estimate by dry running the transaction using the `--dry-run` flag:
```

```sh

> $ checkersd tx checkers create-game `echo $alice` `echo $bob` --from `echo $alice` --dry-run

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ checkersd tx checkers create-game $alice $bob --from $alice --dry-run
```

Btw, just double checking, did you get this working without the `--keyring-backend` flag?

Author: No I did not manage without the `--keyring-backend` but I reckon this is a transitory situation so I did not mention it here.

gas estimate: 40452
```

> That is not much. Thus, `auto` is enough:

Reviewer 2: Not entirely sure what the point of this is. What if it was a lot? You still want to use `--gas auto`, no?

Author: Let me think about it :)

```sh

> $ checkersd tx checkers create-game `echo $alice` `echo $bob` --from `echo $alice` --gas auto

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ checkersd tx checkers create-game $alice $bob --from $alice --gas auto
```

> {"body":{"messages":[{"@type":"/alice.checkers.checkers.MsgCreateGame","creator":"cosmos1wh7scjfhgzeqxfxhqq6jh59sj2y8d7u97qu7qp","red":"cosmos1wh7scjfhgzeqxfxhqq6jh59sj2y8d7u97qu7qp","black":"cosmos199krg6nz4qgv53nvrx9gj7nrlg48clwurn82jy"}],"memo":"","timeout_height":"0","extension_options":[],"non_critical_extension_options":[]},"auth_info":{"signer_infos":[],"fee":{"amount":[],"gas_limit":"40412","payer":"","granter":""}},"signatures":[]}

Reviewer 2: Would recommend to **always** separate the command from the output moving forward. Copy paste button doesn't work this way.

Also, considering this is quite a large output, would suggest to move it inside an expandable box. (as a general rule for large outputs btw)

Author: @coldice Can we have expandable code blocks (the bottom fades out and clicking it expands)?

confirm transaction before signing and broadcasting [y/N]: y
code: 0
codespace: ""
data: 0A0C0A0A43726561746547616D65
gas_used: "38891"
gas_wanted: "40412"
height: "3905"
info: ""
logs:
- events:
  - attributes:
    - key: action
      value: CreateGame
    type: message
  log: ""
  msg_index: 0
raw_log: '[{"events":[{"type":"message","attributes":[{"key":"action","value":"CreateGame"}]}]}]'
timestamp: ""
tx: null
txhash: 59BC309EF79C354DD46ECE8D882BE133699CC10B165FEFAFF6AF3717507EBB4F
```

> Confirm that the new state conforms to your expectations:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can query your chain to see if the new game has been saved to state:
```

```sh
$ checkersd query checkers show-next-game
NextGame:
  creator: ""
  idValue: "0"

$ checkersd query checkers list-stored-game
StoredGame: []
pagination:
  next_key: null
  total: "0"
```

> It seems nothing has changed. Starport only created a message, but you did not implement what actions the chain should undertake when it receives this message. That is the object of the next section.

Reviewer 2: LOVE THIS! Great CTA :)

```suggestion
It looks like nothing has changed. Starport only created a message, but you did not yet implement what actions the chain should undertake when it receives this message. That's what you'll take care of in the [next section](./create-handling.md).
```
